handout/00-setup.md, before:

# Part 0: Setup

Each attendee should come to the course with their own computer, so that they
could follow the steps. We also ask all attendees to complete the following
installation steps before the first day of the course.

## The Command Line Terminal

The AngularJS tool-chain is quite command-line oriented, so we recommend installing a good command line terminal program. For OSX we recommend iTerm2:

<http://iterm2.com/>

For Windows, we've had good experience with Console2:

<http://yuserinterface.com/dev/2013/01/05/console2-a-better-command-prompt-for-windows/>

However, we have also heard good things about ConEmu:

<http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ConEmuTheWindowsTerminalConsolePromptWeveBeenWaitingFor.aspx>

Which specific tool to use is up to the attendees, but they'll want something
like this rather than struggling with the Windows "Command Prompt" tool.

## Git

We'll be using git from the command line:

<http://git-scm.com/download/>

There are tools that provide a GUI interface for git, for both OSX and
Windows. Attendees who are proficient with git and prefer to use those tools
can do so if they wish. However, all of our instructions will be for the
command line, so we recommend having this available as a backup.

## Node.JS

<http://nodejs.org/download/>

This should install two commands: "node" and "npm".

## Google Chrome

Please install a recent version of Google Chrome, since we'll be using
Chrome's Javascript development tools.

## Postman HTTP client:

Postman is our preferred tool for interacting with a REST API server.

<http://www.getpostman.com/>

Postman is less essential and if you have another HTTP client that you prefer, this is fine too.

## Editors

Any text editor will work. At rangle.io the most popular editors/IDEs are Sublime Text 2, WebStorm, VIM, and Atom. We also hear good things about Visual Studio.

## Verifying the Setup

Once you have all the tools setup correctly, you should be able to do the
following steps through the command line. This is the best way to check that
git and node were installed correctly.

Clone the training repository:

```javascript
    git clone https://github.com/rangle/ngcourse.git
    cd ngcourse
```

Install bower via NPM (skip `sudo` on Windows):

```javascript
    sudo npm install -g bower
```

Install the projects bower components using bower:

```javascript
    bower install
```

Install http-server using npm (skip `sudo` on Windows):

```javascript
    sudo npm install -g http-server
```

Fire up the server:

```javascript
    http-server client/
```

Once you've run those commands, you should be able to access the server at
<http://localhost:8080>. If you see a login form at that point, then you did
everything correctly and are ready for the course.

Commit message:

Add batarang note to setup

handout/00-setup.md, after:

# Part 0: Setup

Each attendee should come to the course with their own computer, so that they
could follow the steps. We also ask all attendees to complete the following
installation steps before the first day of the course.

## The Command Line Terminal

The AngularJS tool-chain is quite command-line oriented, so we recommend installing a good command line terminal program. For OSX we recommend iTerm2:

<http://iterm2.com/>

For Windows, we've had good experience with Console2:

<http://yuserinterface.com/dev/2013/01/05/console2-a-better-command-prompt-for-windows/>

However, we have also heard good things about ConEmu:

<http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ConEmuTheWindowsTerminalConsolePromptWeveBeenWaitingFor.aspx>

Which specific tool to use is up to the attendees, but they'll want something
like this rather than struggling with the Windows "Command Prompt" tool.

## Git

We'll be using git from the command line:

<http://git-scm.com/download/>

There are tools that provide a GUI interface for git, for both OSX and
Windows. Attendees who are proficient with git and prefer to use those tools
can do so if they wish. However, all of our instructions will be for the
command line, so we recommend having this available as a backup.

## Node.JS

<http://nodejs.org/download/>

This should install two commands: "node" and "npm".

## Google Chrome

Please install a recent version of Google Chrome, since we'll be using
Chrome's Javascript development tools.


## Angular Batarang

Batarang is an extension for chrome which makes it easier to debug and inspect Angular applications, it can be installed from the Google Webstore: [Angular Batarang](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/angularjs-batarang/ighdmehidhipcmcojjgiloacoafjmpfk?hl=en-US&utm_source=chrome-ntp-launcher)
## Postman HTTP client:

Postman is our preferred tool for interacting with a REST API server.

<http://www.getpostman.com/>

Postman is less essential and if you have another HTTP client that you prefer, this is fine too.

## Editors

Any text editor will work. At rangle.io the most popular editors/IDEs are Sublime Text 2, WebStorm, VIM, and Atom. We also hear good things about Visual Studio.

## Verifying the Setup

Once you have all the tools setup correctly, you should be able to do the
following steps through the command line. This is the best way to check that
git and node were installed correctly.

Clone the training repository:

```javascript
    git clone https://github.com/rangle/ngcourse.git
    cd ngcourse
```

Install bower via NPM (skip `sudo` on Windows):

```javascript
    sudo npm install -g bower
```

Install the projects bower components using bower:

```javascript
    bower install
```

Install http-server using npm (skip `sudo` on Windows):

```javascript
    sudo npm install -g http-server
```

Fire up the server:

```javascript
    http-server client/
```

Once you've run those commands, you should be able to access the server at
<http://localhost:8080>. If you see a login form at that point, then you did
everything correctly and are ready for the course.
