handout/11-ui-router.md, before:

# Part 11: UI Router

Routing allows us to express some aspects of the app's state in the URL.
Unlike with server-side front-end solutions, this is optional - we can build
the full app without ever changing the URL. Adding routing, however, allows
the user to go straight into certain aspects of the app, which can be very
convenient.

## UI-Router

Angular's built in routing solution ('ng-route') has been de facto superceeded
by "ui-router". We'll be using that. To install UI-Router with Bower:

```bash
  bower install --save angular-ui-router
```

Then add `client/bower_components/angular-ui-router/release/angular-ui-router.js` to your `index.html`.

## Adding a "router" Module.

Let's start by adding our own "router" module which will serve as a wrapper
around ui-router. Our module will have a `.config()` section.

```javascript
  angular.module('ngcourse.router', [
    'ui.router'
  ])

  .config(function ($stateProvider, $urlRouterProvider, $locationProvider) {

    $urlRouterProvider.otherwise('/tasks');

    $locationProvider.html5Mode(false);

    $stateProvider
      .state('tasks', {
        url: '/tasks',
        template: 'my tasks'
      });
  });
```

We'll also need to add a a placeholder to our template:

```html
  <div ui-view ng-show="main.user.isAuthenticated"></div>
```

Let's talk about why this need to happen in the "config" section.

## More States

```javascript
  $stateProvider
    .state('tasks', {
      url: '/tasks',
      template: 'my tasks'
    })
    .state('tasksDetail', {
      url: '/tasks/details',
      template: 'task details'
    })
    .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'my account'
    });
```

## States with Parameters

```javascript
  .state('tasksDetail', {
    url: '/tasks/{_id}',
    template: 'task details'
  })
```

This can include regular expressions:

```javascript
  .state('tasksDetail', {
    url: '/tasks/{_id:[A-Za-z0-9-_]{0,}}',
    template: 'task details'
  })
```

## Controllers and Template URLs

```javascript
  $stateProvider
    .state('tasks', {
      url: '/tasks',
      controller: 'TaskListCtrl as taskList',
      templateUrl: '/app/sections/task-list/task-list.html'
    })
    .state('tasksDetail', {
      url: '/tasks/{_id}',
      template: 'task details'
    })
    .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'my account'
    });
```

## Adding "Resolves"

```javascript
  .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'My account',
      resolve: {
        greeting: function($timeout) {
          return $timeout(function() {
            return 'Hello';
          }, 3000);
        }
      }
    });
```

The "resolve" property in a state configuration allows us to specify a set of
dependencies that will need to resolved prior to transitioning to the new
state. Those dependencies become injectable in the route's controller. In the
example above, `greeting` property of the resolve is set to a function that
returns a promise that resolves to 'Hello' after 3000 msec. (We generate this
property using `$timeout`.) The UI-Router will wait until the promise
resolves, then make the transition. The state's controller will be able to
dependency-inject 'greeting', which will be set to 'Hello' by the time the
controller is initialized.

This approach can simplify controller code, but does so at the cost of
terrible user experience: after the user clicks on a button, nothing happens
for 3 seconds, leaving the user wondering what happened.

A better approach is to not rely on "resolve" and instead make the transition
immediately. The receiving controller can then decide what parts of the view
can be displayed right away and what parts will need to be displayed with a
short delay. For example, if the state involves displaying a list of objects
that need to be retrieved from the server, the app can display everything
other than the list, then make add the list items when they arrive. This
usually produces a more natural experience for the user.

## Nesting Views

```javascript
  .state('parent', {
    url: '/parent',
    views: {
      'parent': {
        template: 'parent view <div ui-view="child@parent"></div>'
      }
    },
  })
  .state('parent.child1', {
    url: '/child1',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'child 1'
      }
    }
  })
  .state('parent.child2', {
    url: '/child2',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'child 2'
      }
    }
  });
```

Include the initial view using `<div ui-router="parent"/>`.

Nesting views allows sophisticated routing where parts of the view are defined
by the parent state and parts are defined (or, overridden) by child states.
Note that states get nested implicitly, based on names: "parent.child1" will be
a child of "parent". (UI-Router also provides a facility for nesting states
explicitly.) Child state's URL is understood to be relative to the parents.
So, since "parent.child1" is a child of "parent" and parent's URL is "/parent",
the URL for "child1" is "/parent/child1".

In the example above, the parent view provides part of the view (the text
"parent view") and a placeholder where child states would go. When we visit
child1 and child2, the parent's part of the view remains unchanged, while the
child's section changes.

Alternatively, however, the child can override the parent's part of the view:

```javascript
  .state('parent.child2.grandchild', {
    url: '/grandchild',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'parent overriden'
      }
    }
  })
```

In this case the "grandchild" overrides the view earlier defined by child2.

When overriding parents views we need to refer to them using the ..@.. which allows us to specify an absolute path to the view.

## Transition Using `ui-sref`

We can easily transition between states using `ui-sref` directive:

```html
  <button ui-sref="tasks">Go to tasks</button>
```

## Transitions Using `$state.go()`.

We can also transition using `$state.go()`:

```javascript
  $state.go('tasks.details', {_id: taskId});
```

However, let's wrap this in a service:

```javascript
  .factory('router', function($log, $state, $stateParams) {
    var service = {};

    service.goToTask = function(taskId) {
      $state.go('tasks.details', {_id: taskId});
    };

    return service;
  });
```

## Accessing Parameters Using `$stateParams`

```javascript
  $stateParams._id
```

But again, let's wrap it:

```javascript
  service.getTaskId = function() {
    return $stateParams._id;
  };
```

## Update Param Without a Reload

If we want to change the value of the parameters _without_ triggering a state
transition, we need to update the values in thre three different places where
the UI route keeps them.

```javascript
  // Updates a state param without triggering a reload.
  function quietlyUpdateParam(key, value) {
    $state.params[key] = value;
    $stateParams[key] = value;
    $state.$current.params[key] = value;
  }
```

An example of where this would be useful is a Google Maps style UI, where the
URL is continuously updated as the user moves around the map.

Commit message:

Added some detail about factories, services, providers.

handout/11-ui-router.md, after:

# Part 11: UI Router

Routing allows us to express some aspects of the app's state in the URL.
Unlike with server-side front-end solutions, this is optional - we can build
the full app without ever changing the URL. Adding routing, however, allows
the user to go straight into certain aspects of the app, which can be very
convenient.

## UI-Router

Angular's built in routing solution ('ng-route') has been de facto superceeded
by "ui-router". We'll be using that. To install UI-Router with Bower:

```bash
  bower install --save angular-ui-router
```

Then add `client/bower_components/angular-ui-router/release/angular-ui-router.js` to your `index.html`.

## Adding a "router" Module.

Let's start by adding our own "router" module which will serve as a wrapper
around ui-router. Our module will have a `.config()` section.

```javascript
  angular.module('ngcourse.router', [
    'ui.router'
  ])

  .config(function ($stateProvider, $urlRouterProvider, $locationProvider) {

    $urlRouterProvider.otherwise('/tasks');

    $locationProvider.html5Mode(false);

    $stateProvider
      .state('tasks', {
        url: '/tasks',
        template: 'my tasks'
      });
  });
```

We'll also need to add a a placeholder to our template:

```html
  <div ui-view ng-show="main.user.isAuthenticated"></div>
```

Let's talk about why this need to happen in the "config" section.

## .config() and Providers

Up until now, we've mostly been dealing with services and controllers.
However the example above introduces a couple of new concepts: providers and
`.config()` blocks.

When an AngularJS application starts up, it goes throw several 'phases':
1. Set constants defined in `.constant()` blocks.
2. Create any registered providers.
3. Run .config() blocks.
4. Create services.
5. Run .run() blocks.

A provider is something Angular's dependency injector can use to
create a service.  The provider is configured with various data in the app's
`config` phase, so that during the dependency injection phase, services can be
created that depend on that custom configuration.

In practical terms, any javascript object that exposes a function called $get()
can serve as a provider.  We'll cover this in more detail in part 15 of this
course.

So in this example, we're configuring ui-router's `$stateProvider`,
`$urlRouterProvider`, and `$locationProvider` with settings that will later
be used to generate state, route, and state services with the correct path
and parameter data for use in our own controllers.

## More States

```javascript
  $stateProvider
    .state('tasks', {
      url: '/tasks',
      template: 'my tasks'
    })
    .state('tasksDetail', {
      url: '/tasks/details',
      template: 'task details'
    })
    .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'my account'
    });
```

## States with Parameters

```javascript
  .state('tasksDetail', {
    url: '/tasks/{_id}',
    template: 'task details'
  })
```

This can include regular expressions:

```javascript
  .state('tasksDetail', {
    url: '/tasks/{_id:[A-Za-z0-9-_]{0,}}',
    template: 'task details'
  })
```

## Controllers and Template URLs

```javascript
  $stateProvider
    .state('tasks', {
      url: '/tasks',
      controller: 'TaskListCtrl as taskList',
      templateUrl: '/app/sections/task-list/task-list.html'
    })
    .state('tasksDetail', {
      url: '/tasks/{_id}',
      template: 'task details'
    })
    .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'my account'
    });
```

## Adding "Resolves"

```javascript
  .state('account', {
      url: '/my-account',
      template: 'My account',
      resolve: {
        greeting: function($timeout) {
          return $timeout(function() {
            return 'Hello';
          }, 3000);
        }
      }
    });
```

The "resolve" property in a state configuration allows us to specify a set of
dependencies that will need to resolved prior to transitioning to the new
state. Those dependencies become injectable in the route's controller. In the
example above, `greeting` property of the resolve is set to a function that
returns a promise that resolves to 'Hello' after 3000 msec. (We generate this
property using `$timeout`.) The UI-Router will wait until the promise
resolves, then make the transition. The state's controller will be able to
dependency-inject 'greeting', which will be set to 'Hello' by the time the
controller is initialized.

This approach can simplify controller code, but does so at the cost of
terrible user experience: after the user clicks on a button, nothing happens
for 3 seconds, leaving the user wondering what happened.

A better approach is to not rely on "resolve" and instead make the transition
immediately. The receiving controller can then decide what parts of the view
can be displayed right away and what parts will need to be displayed with a
short delay. For example, if the state involves displaying a list of objects
that need to be retrieved from the server, the app can display everything
other than the list, then make add the list items when they arrive. This
usually produces a more natural experience for the user.

## Nesting Views

```javascript
  .state('parent', {
    url: '/parent',
    views: {
      'parent': {
        template: 'parent view <div ui-view="child@parent"></div>'
      }
    },
  })
  .state('parent.child1', {
    url: '/child1',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'child 1'
      }
    }
  })
  .state('parent.child2', {
    url: '/child2',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'child 2'
      }
    }
  });
```

Include the initial view using `<div ui-router="parent"/>`.

Nesting views allows sophisticated routing where parts of the view are defined
by the parent state and parts are defined (or, overridden) by child states.
Note that states get nested implicitly, based on names: "parent.child1" will be
a child of "parent". (UI-Router also provides a facility for nesting states
explicitly.) Child state's URL is understood to be relative to the parents.
So, since "parent.child1" is a child of "parent" and parent's URL is "/parent",
the URL for "child1" is "/parent/child1".

In the example above, the parent view provides part of the view (the text
"parent view") and a placeholder where child states would go. When we visit
child1 and child2, the parent's part of the view remains unchanged, while the
child's section changes.

Alternatively, however, the child can override the parent's part of the view:

```javascript
  .state('parent.child2.grandchild', {
    url: '/grandchild',
    views: {
      'child@parent': {
        template: 'parent overriden'
      }
    }
  })
```

In this case the "grandchild" overrides the view earlier defined by child2.

When overriding parents views we need to refer to them using the ..@.. which allows us to specify an absolute path to the view.

## Transition Using `ui-sref`

We can easily transition between states using `ui-sref` directive:

```html
  <button ui-sref="tasks">Go to tasks</button>
```

## Transitions Using `$state.go()`.

We can also transition using `$state.go()`:

```javascript
  $state.go('tasks.details', {_id: taskId});
```

However, let's wrap this in a service:

```javascript
  .factory('router', function($log, $state, $stateParams) {
    var service = {};

    service.goToTask = function(taskId) {
      $state.go('tasks.details', {_id: taskId});
    };

    return service;
  });
```

## Accessing Parameters Using `$stateParams`

```javascript
  $stateParams._id
```

But again, let's wrap it:

```javascript
  service.getTaskId = function() {
    return $stateParams._id;
  };
```

## Update Param Without a Reload

If we want to change the value of the parameters _without_ triggering a state
transition, we need to update the values in thre three different places where
the UI route keeps them.

```javascript
  // Updates a state param without triggering a reload.
  function quietlyUpdateParam(key, value) {
    $state.params[key] = value;
    $stateParams[key] = value;
    $state.$current.params[key] = value;
  }
```

An example of where this would be useful is a Google Maps style UI, where the
URL is continuously updated as the user moves around the map.
