handout/13-advanced-form-validation.md, before:

# Part 13: Advanced Form Validation

AngularJS provides a lot of built-in functionality to improve the user
experience around HTML form validation.  Using the two-way binding features of
`ng-model`, telling the user about invalid form data is quick and easy.

## Disabling Login for Missing Data

Let's revise the basic login UI we built earlier in this course.  Replace the
existing username and password fields in `index.html` with the following markup:

```html
<div ng-controller="MainCtrl as main">
  <form
    ng-hide="main.user.isAuthenticated"
    ng-controller="LoginFormCtrl as loginForm"
    class="login"
    name="loginForm.form"
    novalidate>

    Enter username: <input
      ng-model="loginForm.username"
      name="username"
      required>
    <br>

    Password: <input
      type="password"
      ng-model="loginForm.password"
      name="password"
      required>
    <br>

    <button
      ng-click="main.login(loginForm.username, loginForm.password)"
      ng-disabled="loginForm.form.$invalid">Login</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

* We've converted the `<div>` to an HTML `<form>` with the `novalidate` attribute
* We've given the form a `name`; this causes Angular to begin tracking validation
state for the form fields.
* We've also named the input fields and marked them as `required`.

AngularJS now gives us a controller variable, called `form`, which contains the
results of validating each field and the form itself.  Try sticking the
following expressions in after the `<button>` element:

```html
<p>
  Is form valid: {{ !loginForm.form.$invalid }}<br>
  Is username valid: {{ !loginForm.form.username.$invalid }}<br>
  Is password valid: {{ !loginForm.form.password.$invalid }}
</p>
```

Here, we're using the built-in validator for `required`.  However,
AngularJS also provides several other validators for use with `<input>`
elements, including:

* ng-minlength
* ng-maxlength
* ng-pattern

Here's an example that restricts the username to lower-case letters only, using
a regular expression:

```html
Enter username: <input
  ng-model="loginFormCtrl.username"
  name="username"
  ng-pattern="/^[a-z]+$/"
  required><br>
```

Node that we now have two validators on this field: `required` and `ng-pattern`.
If you need to know which one failed, you can do this:

```html
<p>{{ loginFormCtrl.form.username.$error }}</p>
```

## An Important Caveat

Note that AngularJS is a client-side technology.  The client is an inherently
untrusted environment: a malicious end user can bypass any of the input
validation by messing around with the browser.

This means that __login and data validation always needs to be enforced on
the server side!__

AngularJS's form features are there to give you the tools to make the end-user
experience better, not to enforce security constraints.

## Providing UI Cues for Missing Data

In addition to built-in validators, AngularJS also gives you some CSS classes
that you can use to provide UI cues when there's a problem with
the form.

Some examples include:

* ng-valid: the model is valid
* ng-invalid: the model is invalid
* ng-pristine: the control hasn't been interacted with yet
* ng-dirty: the control has been interacted with
* ng-touched: the control has been blurred
* ng-untouched: the control hasn't been blurred

See the [AngularJS docs](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/forms) for a complete
list.

Let's hook some of these up to highlight fields when the user enters bad data.

Copy the following into `client/css/styles.css` and see what happens:

```css
.login input.ng-invalid.ng-touched {
  background-color: #FDD;
}

.login input.ng-valid.ng-touched {
  background-color: #DFD;
}
```

Here, we're assigning a custom background colour to each input box based on
data validity and whether the user has moved focus away from the control.

## HTML5 Input Types

HTML5 provides some additional input types, like `number`, `url`, `email`, etc.
AngularJS has built-in validation for them.  Give this a try:

```html
Email: <input type="email" name="email" ng-model="loginFormCtrl.email">
</input><br>

<span ng-show="loginFormCtrl.form.email.$invalid">
  Please enter a valid email address.
</span>
```

## Providing Custom Validation

The built-in AngularJS form validators are simple and powerful.  But what if
you need more complex validation?

You can always build your own validator by creating a directive.  Place the
following code in a file called input-white-list-directive.js, and make
sure it's included in a `<script>` tag in `index.html`.

```JavaScript
'use strict';

angular.module('ngcourse')
  .directive('inputWhiteList', function($log) {
    return {
      require: 'ngModel',
      scope: {
        whiteList: '='
      },
      link: function(scope, element, attrs, ctrl) {
        ctrl.$validators.whiteList = function(modelValue, viewValue) {
          return (-1 !== scope.whiteList.indexOf(viewValue));
        }
      }
    }
  });
```

This directive introduces a new concept:  `require`.  Here, we are telling
angular that this directive uses functionality from the built-in 'ngModel'
directive.  This gives us access to ngModelController as the `ctrl`
parameter to our link function.

We can use this parameter to add to ngModel's list of `$validators` for any
HTML element we use this directive on.

Make the following change to your index.html:

```html
Enter username: <input
  ng-model="loginFormCtrl.username"
  name="username"
  input-white-list white-list="['alice', 'bob', 'dan']"><br>

<span ng-show="loginFormCtrl.form.username.$error.whiteList">
  Username must be one of 'alice', 'bob', or 'dan'.
</span><br>
```

We now have a custom validator that checks that the input matches a white list
of values.

Commit message:

main.html for form validation

handout/13-advanced-form-validation.md, after:

# Part 13: Advanced Form Validation

AngularJS provides a lot of built-in functionality to improve the user
experience around HTML form validation.  Using the two-way binding features of
`ng-model`, telling the user about invalid form data is quick and easy.

## Disabling Login for Missing Data

Let's revise the basic login UI we built earlier in this course.  Create a `main.html` at `app/components/main/main.html` with the following markup:

```html
<div ng-controller="MainCtrl as main">
  <form
    ng-hide="main.user.isAuthenticated"
    ng-controller="LoginFormCtrl as loginForm"
    class="login"
    name="loginForm.form"
    novalidate>

    Enter username: <input
      ng-model="loginForm.username"
      name="username"
      required>
    <br>

    Password: <input
      type="password"
      ng-model="loginForm.password"
      name="password"
      required>
    <br>

    <button
      ng-click="main.login(loginForm.username, loginForm.password)"
      ng-disabled="loginForm.form.$invalid">Login</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

* We've converted the `<div>` to an HTML `<form>` with the `novalidate` attribute
* We've given the form a `name`; this causes Angular to begin tracking validation
state for the form fields.
* We've also named the input fields and marked them as `required`.

and update our router-service to load the main form.

```
    $urlRouterProvider.otherwise('/');

    $locationProvider.html5Mode(false);

    $stateProvider
      .state('home', {
        url: '/',
        controller: 'MainCtrl as main',
        templateUrl: '/app/components/main/main.html'
      })
      .state('tasks', {
        url: '/tasks',
        controller: 'TaskListCtrl as taskList',
        templateUrl: '/app/sections/task-list/task-list.html'
    })
```

with the rest of the file remaining the same.


AngularJS now gives us a controller variable, called `form`, which contains the
results of validating each field and the form itself.  Try sticking the
following expressions in after the `<button>` element:

```html
<p>
  Is form valid: {{ !loginForm.form.$invalid }}<br>
  Is username valid: {{ !loginForm.form.username.$invalid }}<br>
  Is password valid: {{ !loginForm.form.password.$invalid }}
</p>
```

Here, we're using the built-in validator for `required`.  However,
AngularJS also provides several other validators for use with `<input>`
elements, including:

* ng-minlength
* ng-maxlength
* ng-pattern

Here's an example that restricts the username to lower-case letters only, using
a regular expression:

```html
Enter username: <input
  ng-model="loginFormCtrl.username"
  name="username"
  ng-pattern="/^[a-z]+$/"
  required><br>
```

Node that we now have two validators on this field: `required` and `ng-pattern`.
If you need to know which one failed, you can do this:

```html
<p>{{ loginFormCtrl.form.username.$error }}</p>
```

## An Important Caveat

Note that AngularJS is a client-side technology.  The client is an inherently
untrusted environment: a malicious end user can bypass any of the input
validation by messing around with the browser.

This means that __login and data validation always needs to be enforced on
the server side!__

AngularJS's form features are there to give you the tools to make the end-user
experience better, not to enforce security constraints.

## Providing UI Cues for Missing Data

In addition to built-in validators, AngularJS also gives you some CSS classes
that you can use to provide UI cues when there's a problem with
the form.

Some examples include:

* ng-valid: the model is valid
* ng-invalid: the model is invalid
* ng-pristine: the control hasn't been interacted with yet
* ng-dirty: the control has been interacted with
* ng-touched: the control has been blurred
* ng-untouched: the control hasn't been blurred

See the [AngularJS docs](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/forms) for a complete
list.

Let's hook some of these up to highlight fields when the user enters bad data.

Copy the following into `client/css/styles.css` and see what happens:

```css
.login input.ng-invalid.ng-touched {
  background-color: #FDD;
}

.login input.ng-valid.ng-touched {
  background-color: #DFD;
}
```

Here, we're assigning a custom background colour to each input box based on
data validity and whether the user has moved focus away from the control.

## HTML5 Input Types

HTML5 provides some additional input types, like `number`, `url`, `email`, etc.
AngularJS has built-in validation for them.  Give this a try:

```html
Email: <input type="email" name="email" ng-model="loginFormCtrl.email">
</input><br>

<span ng-show="loginFormCtrl.form.email.$invalid">
  Please enter a valid email address.
</span>
```

## Providing Custom Validation

The built-in AngularJS form validators are simple and powerful.  But what if
you need more complex validation?

You can always build your own validator by creating a directive.  Place the
following code in a file called input-white-list-directive.js, and make
sure it's included in a `<script>` tag in `index.html`.

```JavaScript
'use strict';

angular.module('ngcourse')
  .directive('inputWhiteList', function($log) {
    return {
      require: 'ngModel',
      scope: {
        whiteList: '='
      },
      link: function(scope, element, attrs, ctrl) {
        ctrl.$validators.whiteList = function(modelValue, viewValue) {
          return (-1 !== scope.whiteList.indexOf(viewValue));
        }
      }
    }
  });
```

This directive introduces a new concept:  `require`.  Here, we are telling
angular that this directive uses functionality from the built-in 'ngModel'
directive.  This gives us access to ngModelController as the `ctrl`
parameter to our link function.

We can use this parameter to add to ngModel's list of `$validators` for any
HTML element we use this directive on.

Make the following change to your index.html:

```html
Enter username: <input
  ng-model="loginFormCtrl.username"
  name="username"
  input-white-list white-list="['alice', 'bob', 'dan']"><br>

<span ng-show="loginFormCtrl.form.username.$error.whiteList">
  Username must be one of 'alice', 'bob', or 'dan'.
</span><br>
```

We now have a custom validator that checks that the input matches a white list
of values.
